[#188] Command Bus Infrastructure adjustments (#199)
AxonIQ/reference-guide: axon-framework/axon-framework-commands/infrastructure.md

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## The Command Bus - Distributed

More often you want multiple instances of command buses in different JVMs to act as one. 
Commands dispatched on one JVM's command bus should be seamlessly transported to a command handler in another JVM while sending back any results.
That is where the concept of 'distributing the command bus' comes in.

> There are a couple of concepts that are configurable, regardless of the type of distribute command bus used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a couple of concepts that are configurable, regardless of the type of distributed command bus that is being used:
```

### Local Segment

Unlike the [local](#the-command-bus---local) `CommandBus` implementations, the distributed command buses do not invoke any handlers at all.
All they do is form a "bridge" between command bus implementations on different JVM's, delegating any received commands to the so-called _local segment_.

By default, this local segment is the [`SimpleCommandBus`](infrastructure.md#simplecommandbus).
You can configure the local segment to be any of the other local command buses too, like the [`AsynchronousCommandBus`](infrastructure.md#asynchronouscommandbus) and [`DisruptorCommandBus`](infrastructure.md#disruptorcommandbus).
How to configure the local segment will be shown in the sections of the implementations

### Load Factor

The load factor defines the amount of load an Axon application would carry compared to other instances.
For example, if you have a two machine set up, both with a load factor of 100, both will carry an equal amount of load.

Increasing the load factor to 200 on both would still mean that both machines receive the same amount of load.

> This points out that the load factor will only change load amongst systems if the values are in equal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This points out that the load factor will only change the load amongst systems if the values are in equal.
```
I am not entirely sure what this sentence means though.

Reviewer 2: I feel like `are in` should be `aren't` ?

Author: Both your pointers are right.

What I am trying to share through that sentence, that the `loadFactor` only impacts a different load per running Axon Framework instance, if the values per instance actually differ.

If on both instances the loadFactor is a 100, both will receive the arbitrary value of a 100.
Doubling the value on both to 200 would thus not make a difference, as both would still receive 50% of the total load.

> Doing so would make sense in a heterogeneous application landscape, where for the faster machines should deal with a bigger portion of command handling than the slower machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doing so would make sense in a heterogeneous application landscape, where the faster machines should deal with a bigger portion of command handling than the slower machines.
```

The default load factor set for the distributed `CommandBus` implementations is 100.
The configuration changes slightly per distributed implementation and as such will be covered in those sections.

### Routing Strategy

Commands should be [routed consistently](../../architecture-overview/README.md#explicit-messaging) to the same application, especially those targeted towards a specific Aggregate.
This ensures a single instance is in charge of the targeted aggregate, resolving the concurrent access issue and allowing for optimization like caching to work as designed.

> To component dealing with the consistent routing in an Axon application, is the `RoutingStrategy`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The component dealing with the consistent routing in an Axon application, is the `RoutingStrategy`.
```

The `RoutingStrategy` receives a `CommandMessage` and based on the message returns the routing key to use.
Two commands with the same routing key will **always** be routed to the same segment, as long as there is no topology change in the distributed set-up.

> At the moment, there are five implementations of the `RoutingStrategy`, where three of these are intended to be a fallback solution in case the routing key cannot be resolved:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment, there are five implementations of the `RoutingStrategy`. Three of these are intended to be a fallback solution, in case the routing key cannot be resolved:
```

>  1. The `AnnotationRoutingStrategy` - the **default** routing strategy expecting the `TargetAggregateIdentifier` or `RoutingKey` annotation to be present on a field inside the command class. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. The `AnnotationRoutingStrategy` - the **default** routing strategy expects the `TargetAggregateIdentifier` or `RoutingKey` annotation to be present on a field inside the command class. 
```

    The annotated field or getter is searched, and the contents will be returned as the routing key for that command.

>  2. The `MetaDataRoutingStrategy` - uses a property defined during creation of this strategy to fetch the routing key from the `CommandMessage` its `MetaData`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 2. The `MetaDataRoutingStrategy` - uses a property defined during creation of this strategy to fetch the routing key from the `CommandMessage`'s `MetaData`.
```

 3. The `ERROR` `UnresolvedRoutingKeyPolicy` - the **default fallback** that will cause an exception to be thrown when the routing key cannot be resolved from the given `CommandMessage`.
 4. The `RANDOM_KEY` `UnresolvedRoutingKeyPolicy` - will return a random value when a routing key cannot be resolved from the `CommandMessage`. 
    This effectively means that those commands will be routed to a random segment of the command bus.
 5. The `STATIC_KEY` `UnresolvedRoutingKeyPolicy` - will return a static key \(named "unresolved"\) for unresolved routing keys. 

>     This effectively means that all those commands will be routed to the same segment, as long as the configuration of segments does not change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This means that all those commands will be routed to the same segment, as long as the configuration of segments does not change.
```
You've used your quota for "This, effectively" in the last sentence. 😜

Author: Fair one! I'll reword the sentence a bit further even :-)

Author: FYI, changed it to this:

```
 4. The `RANDOM_KEY` `UnresolvedRoutingKeyPolicy` - will return a random value when a routing key cannot be resolved from the `CommandMessage`. 
    This means that those commands will be routed to a random segment of the command bus.
 5. The `STATIC_KEY` `UnresolvedRoutingKeyPolicy` - will return a static key \(named "unresolved"\) for unresolved routing keys. 
    This policy routes all commands to the same segment, as long as the configuration of segments does not change.
```

> The `AnnotationRoutingStrategy`  and `MetaDataRoutingStrategy` are considered the full implementations to configure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `AnnotationRoutingStrategy` and `MetaDataRoutingStrategy` are considered the full implementations to configure.
```

To get a grasp how these are constructed, consider the following sample:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="AnnotationRoutingStrategy" %}
```java
// A custom annotation can be used to drive the AnnotationRoutingStrategy
@interface CustomRoutingAnnotation {
}
// Constructs a AnnotationRoutingStrategy with a different annotation and fallback: 
public RoutingStrategy routingStrategy() {
    return AnnotationRoutingStrategy.builder()
                                    .annotationType(CustomRoutingAnnotation.class)
                                    .fallbackRoutingStrategy(UnresolvedRoutingKeyPolicy.STATIC_KEY)
                                    .build();
}
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="MetaDataRoutingStrategy" %}
```java
// Constructs a MetaDataRoutingStrategy with the defined meta data key and a different fallback:
public RoutingStrategy routingStrategy() {
    return MetaDataRoutingStrategy.builder()
                                  .metaDataKey("my-routing-key")
                                  .fallbackRoutingStrategy(UnresolvedRoutingKeyPolicy.RANDOM_KEY)
                                  .build();
}
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

> Of course a custom implementation of the `RoutingStrategy` can also be provided when necessary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of course, a custom implementation of the `RoutingStrategy` can also be provided when necessary.
```

When we need to deviate from the default `AnnotationRoutingStrategy`, we should configure it like so: 

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Axon Configuration API" %}
```java
public class AxonConfig {
    // ...  

>     public void configureRoutingStrategy(Configurer configurer, RoutingStrategy routingStrategy) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    public void configureRoutingStrategy(Configurer configurer, YourRoutingStrategy yourRoutingStrategy) {
```

I think I would make it explicitly that this is a custom routing strategy impl

Author: Agreed!

        configurer.registerComponent(RoutingStrategy.class, config -> routingStrategy);
    }
}
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Spring Boot AutoConfiguration" %}
```java
@Configuration
public class AxonConfig {
    // ...
    @Bean
    public RoutingStrategy routingStrategy() {
        return /* construct your routing strategy */;
    }
}
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### AxonServerCommandBus

> The `AxonServerCommandBus` is the _default_ distributed `CommandBus` implementation set by the framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `AxonServerCommandBus` is the _default_ distributed `CommandBus` implementation that is set by the framework.
```

> It connects to [AxonServer](../../axon-server-introduction.md) to submit and receive commands with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It connects to [AxonServer](../../axon-server-introduction.md), with which it can submit and receive commands.
```

Reviewer 2: I would change `submit` by `send`... never heard `submit a command` before 😂

Author: Both comments (or commands :thinking: ) are correct. Doing both and changing the sentence to:

`It connects to [AxonServer](../../axon-server-introduction.md), with which it can send and receive commands.`

As it is the default, configuring it is relatively straightforward:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Axon Configuration API" %}
Declare dependencies:
```text
<!--somewhere in the POM file-->
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.axonframework</groupId>
    <artifactId>axon-server-connector</artifactId>

>     <version>${axon.version}</version>

Reviewer 2: Should we start using `axon.bom.version` for example? just trying to figure out the best way to approach the bom on the docs as well (as I am getting used to that still)

Author: Hmmm true...in essence, the BOM allows removal of the version here entirely, but it requires adding a dependency management section too which I would like to omit actually.

Author: I've simply expanded on the sample like so:
```xml
<!-- somewhere in the POM file... -->
<dependencyManagement>
    <!-- amongst the dependencies... -->
    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.axonframework</groupId>
            <artifactId>axon-bom</artifactId>
            <version>${version.axon}</version>
            <type>pom</type>
            <scope>import</scope>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
<!-- ... -->
<dependencies>
    <!-- amongst the dependencies... -->
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.axonframework</groupId>
        <artifactId>axon-server-connector</artifactId>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.axonframework</groupId>
        <artifactId>axon-configuration</artifactId>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

Reviewer 2: Looks good!

</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.axonframework</groupId>
    <artifactId>axon-configuration</artifactId>
    <version>${axon.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

Configure your application:
```java
// The AxonServerCommandBus is configured as Command Bus by default when constructing a DefaultConfigurer.
Configurer configurer = DefaultConfigurer.defaultConfiguration();
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Spring Boot AutoConfiguration" %}

> By simply declaring the `axon-spring-boot-starter` dependency, Axon will automatically configure the `AxonServerCommandBus`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By simply including the `axon-spring-boot-starter` dependency, Axon will automatically configure the `AxonServerCommandBus`:
```

```text
<!--somewhere in the POM file-->
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.axonframework</groupId>
    <artifactId>axon-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
    <version>${axon.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

> **Disabling Axon Server**
>
> There are two options to disable Axon Framework's default of using the `AxonServerCommandBus`:
>
> 1. By excluding the `axon-server-connector` dependency.
> 2. By setting `axon.server.enabled` to `false` when Spring Boot is used.
>

> > When doing either of these, Axon will fallback to the not distributed [`SimpleCommandBus`](infrastructure.md#simplecommandbus), unless configured otherwise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> When doing any of these, Axon will fallback to the **not** distributed [`SimpleCommandBus`](infrastructure.md#simplecommandbus), unless configured otherwise.
```

#### Local Segment and Load Factor Configuration

The [load factor](#load-factor) for the `AxonServerCommandBus` is defined through the `CommandLoadFactorProvider`.

> This interface allows us to define a different load factor per command message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This interface allows us to distinguish a different load factor per command message.
```
you used "define" in the previous sentence.

Author: Gotcha, changed the sentence a bit further to this:
`This interface allows us to distinguish between commands to, for example, use a different load factor per command message.`

> This might proof useful if some commands should be targeted towards more often to one instance in favour of the other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This might be useful if some commands are triggered more often to one instance in favour of the other.
```
Is this OK? Not sure if I got the gist of the meaning right.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This might be useful if some commands are triggered more often towards one instance in favour of the other.
```
I would still use `towards` like this.

Author: Thanks! But `targeted` is used deliberately here. But the point isn't coming across due to it, I think.
I've changed the sentence to this:
`This might be useful if some commands are routed more often towards one instance in favour of the other.`

The following should be done to configure a custom [local segment](#local-segment) and/or load factor:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Axon Configuration API" %}
```java
// Somewhere in the configuration class

> public CommandBus axonServerCommandBus(CommandBus localSegment,

Reviewer 2: does it need to be a `@Bean`?

Author: Not in this case, as it is not the Spring Config section but the plain Axon Configuration API  :-)

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## The Command Bus - Distributed

> Often time you would want multiple instances of command buses in different JVMs to act as one. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oftentimes you would want multiple instances of command buses in different JVMs to act as one. 
```

The load factor defines the amount of load an Axon application would carry compared to other instances.
For example, if you have a two machine set up, each with a load factor of 100, they will both carry an equal amount of load.

Increasing the load factor to 200 on both would still mean that both machines receive the same amount of load.
This points out that the load factor will only change the load amongst systems if the values are not equal.
Doing so would make sense in a heterogeneous application landscape, where the faster machines should deal with a bigger portion of command handling than the slower machines.

The default load factor set for the distributed `CommandBus` implementations is 100.
The configuration changes slightly per distributed implementation and as such will be covered in those sections.

### Routing Strategy

Commands should be [routed consistently](../../architecture-overview/README.md#explicit-messaging) to the same application, especially those targeted towards a specific Aggregate.
This ensures a single instance is in charge of the targeted aggregate, resolving the concurrent access issue and allowing for optimization like caching to work as designed.

> The component dealing with the consistent routing in an Axon application, is the `RoutingStrategy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The component dealing with the consistent routing in an Axon application is the `RoutingStrategy`.
```

The `RoutingStrategy` receives a `CommandMessage` and based on the message returns the routing key to use.
Two commands with the same routing key will **always** be routed to the same segment, as long as there is no topology change in the distributed set-up.

At the moment, there are five implementations of the `RoutingStrategy`. 

> Three of these are intended to be a fallback solution in case the routing key cannot be resolved:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Three of these are intended to be fallback solutions, in case the routing key cannot be resolved:
```
